 Rarely does a president confront so much peril, the catastrophe in Israel, the war in Ukraine, and no help from a paralyzed Congress. Late Thursday we met President Biden at the White House. It had been a rough week, and we could see it on him. Mr. Biden will be 81 next month, and he has said that when he's tired his lifelong stutter can creep back in. But he wedged us into his schedule to express his commitment to Israel after the massacre of more than 1,000 civilians eight days ago. 29 Americans were killed, 15 are missing, and at least a small number of them are known to have been taken hostage. In a video call on Friday, Mr. Biden had this message for Americans in Israel whose loved ones have vanished. The story will continue in a moment. We're saying we're going to do everything in our power to find those who are still alive and set them free, everything in our power. And I'm not going to go into the detail of that, but we're working like him on it. Why do you feel so strongly about speaking to these families personally on Zoom? Because I think they have to know that the President of the United States of America cares deeply about what's happening. Deeply, we have to communicate to the world, this is critical. This is not even human behavior. It's pure barbarism. And we're going to do everything in our power to get them home if we can find them. Friday's hour long call with 14 families included a father who told us the President answered desperate pleas with empathy and patience, is getting the American hostages back safely among your highest priorities now. Of course it is, but it's hard to make distinctions. The most important thing is ending this brutality and to hold those committed accountable. To confront the brutality, Mr. Biden ordered two aircraft carriers plus cruisers and destroyers to the region. There are about 900 US troops in Syria on a counterterrorism mission since 2015. Can you foresee US troops in combat in this new Middle East war? I don't think that's necessary. Israel has one of the finest fighting forces in the country. My guarantee we're going to provide them everything they need. Because of what we're seeing in the Middle East is the threat of terrorism in the United States increased. Yes, I had a meeting this morning with the Homeland Security people with the FBI for the situation room for a better part of an hour to discuss how we make sure that we prevent a lone wolf and or any coordinated effort to try to do what was done in synagogues before. It wasn't done to Jews in the street. And so we're making a major effort to make sure that doesn't happen. Saturday, October 7th has been called Israel's 9-11. More than 1,000 Hamas terrorists from Gaza smashed through a border wall to commit mass murder. Families in their homes. Crows at a concert. People in the street. Israel is striking back with the largest bombardment of Gaza ever. More than 2,000 have been killed by Gaza's count. Certainly, about 1200 Israeli civilians were killed in the initial attack, but now Hamas fighters and Palestinian civilians are being killed in the counterattack. Is it time for a ceasefire? Look, there's a fundamental difference. Israel is going after a group of people who engage in barbarism that is as consequential as the Holocaust. And so I think Israel has to respond. They have to go after Hamas. Now, Hamas had a bunch of cowards. They're hiding behind the civilians. They put their headquarters where civilians are and buildings and the like. But to the extent that they can separate out and avoid, I'm confident these Israelis are going to do everything in their power to avoid the killing of innocent civilians. Hamas is an Islamist terrorist group and the government of Gaza. Gaza is 25 miles long and averages 5 miles wide. Israel severely limits its economy so most gossens are destitute. Now, Israel has cut off food, fuel, electricity, and most water and has ordered 1 million gossens to evacuate to the southern half of Gaza. The UN warns of a humanitarian disaster. There are about 2 million people in Gaza. As you know, Mr. President, 2 million people trapped about half of them are children. Are you asking Israel to establish a humanitarian corridor in that area or get humanitarian supplies? Yes, our team is talking about that and whether there could be a safe zone, we're also talking with the Egyptians, whether there is an outlet to get these children and women out into out of that area at this moment. But it's hard. You would like to see a humanitarian corridor that allows some of the 2 million gossens out of the area. You would like to see humanitarian supplies brought into Gaza? Yes. So you do not agree with the Israeli total siege of the Gaza Strip. I'm confident that Israel is going to act under the major, the rules of war. There are as standards that democratic institutions and countries will go by. And so I'm confident that there's going to be an ability for the innocence in Gaza to be able to have access to medicine and food and water. Would you support Israeli occupation of Gaza at this point? I think it'd be a big mistake. Look, what happened in Gaza, in my view, is Hamas and the extreme elements of Hamas don't represent all the Palestinian people. And I think that it would be a mistake for Israel to occupy Gaza again. But to go in and take it out, the extremist, the Hezbollah is up north, but Hamas down south is a necessary requirement. You believe that Hamas must be eliminated entirely? Yes, I do. But there needs to be a Palestinian authority. There needs to be a path to a Palestinian state. That path, called the two-state solution, has been U.S. policy for decades. It would create an independent nation next to Israel for five million Palestinians who live in Gaza and on the West Bank of the Jordan River. And you believe Israel would pursue that after what's occurred? Not now, not now, but I think Israel understands that significant portion of the Palestinian people do not share the views of Hamas and Hezbollah. Hezbollah is a powerful Islamist militia to Israel's north, which is armed and trained by Iran. Iran also supports Hamas. There's limited fighting already on the northern Israeli border, and I wonder what is your message to Hezbollah and its backer Iran? Don't. Don't, don't, don't. Don't come across the border. Don't escalate this war. That's right. Is Iran behind the Gaza war? I don't want to get into the classified information, but to be very blunt with you, there's no clear evidence of that. At this point, no evidence that Iran is behind any of this. Correct. Now, Iran constantly supports Hamas and Hezbollah. I don't mean that. But in terms of where they have foreign knowledge, that they'll plan the attack, there's no evidence of that at this point. The President is asking for billions of dollars for Israel and Ukraine. That Congress is paralyzed. Hard-right Republicans are obstructing the election of a speaker of the House. Does the dysfunction that we've seen in Congress increase the danger in the world? Yes. Look, this is not your father's Republican party. 30% of it is made up of these macro Republicans who are maybe democracy is something I don't, they don't look at it the same way you and I look at democracy. Are the wars in Israel and Ukraine more than the United States can take on at the same time? Where the United States of America is. For God's sake. The most powerful nation in the history, not in the world, in the history of the world. The history of the world. We can take care of both of these and still maintain our overall international defense. Russia's unprovoked invasion occupies nearly 20% of Ukraine. Hundreds of thousands have been killed or wounded. In an interview last month, President Volodomir Zelensky told us he could lose without USAID. How do these wars in Israel and Ukraine relate to the safety of the American people? Overwhelmingly, for example, in Ukraine, one of my objectives was to prevent Putin who has committed war crimes himself, who from being able to occupy an independent country that borders NATO allies and is on the Russian border. Imagine what happens now if he were able to succeed. Have you ever known the major war in Europe we didn't get sucked into? We don't want that to happen. We want to make sure those democracies are sustained. And Ukraine is critical in making sure that happens. Mr. Biden told us images of October 7th reminded him of the Holocaust, which he has studied, taking his family to the Dockhau Death Camp in Germany. This is 2015. The man in the wheelchair is a Dockhau survivor. Behind Mr. Biden is the president's granddaughter. I want my children and grandchildren to fully understand exactly what happened and why you couldn't deny that Karni is going on if you're living in Germany and in Europe. Why do you feel so strongly? What does Israel mean to you? The Jews have been subject to abuse, prejudice and attempt to wipe them out for over a thousand years. For me, it's about decency, respect, honor. It's just simply wrong, wrong, wrong, wrong. It violates everybody. This is principal I have in every way and every single principal my father taught me. As we spoke to the president, his secretary of state was in Israel. His defense secretary was at a NATO meeting on Ukraine. Africa's oldest president seemed tired from directing all of this, but he was very clear on what he stood for and how his policies and his view would see America through. Is President given these two wars and the dysfunction in Congress? Are you sure that you want to run again? Yes, because I'm sure. I ran and I said the world is an inflection point. The world's changing, but we have an opportunity to make it. So imagine if we were able to succeed in getting the Middle East put in place where we have normalization of relations. I think we can do that. Imagine what happens if we, in fact, unite all of Europe and Putin is finally put down where he cannot cause the kind of trouble he's been causing. We have enormous opportunities, enormous opportunities to make it a better world. More from President Biden. Is the effort to normalize relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia now dead? No. At 60 minutes overtime.com.